You can change the look of your character changing the current skin under the tap "Skins" in the Minecraft Launcher.
Iron golems will fight for you!
Alter the brightness setting to make the game brighter or darker.
If you set the game difficulty to Peaceful, your health will automatically regenerate, and no monsters will come out at night!
Feed a bone to a wolf to tame it. You can then make it sit or follow you.
Wearing a pumpkin on your head will keep Endermen from attacking you.
Sleeping in a bed at night will fast forward the game to dawn, but all players in a multiplayer game need to sleep in beds at the same time.
Harvest food from pigs, cows, sheep, rabbit, and chickens. Cook and eat it to regain health!
Harvest leather from cows, and use it to make armor and books.
If you have an empty bucket, you can fill it with water, lava, or milk from a cow!
Use a hoe to prepare areas of ground for planting.
Spiders won't attack you during the day unless you attack them.
Feeding an animal will keep it from despawning. Build a pen to keep your animals safe.
Eating cooked food reduces hunger better than eating raw food.
Craft torches to light up dark areas. Monsters lurk in the darkness!
Get to destinations faster with a minecart and rail!
Plant some saplings and they'll grow into trees.
Pigmen won't attack you unless you attack them.
You can change your game spawn point, and skip to dawn by sleeping in a bed.
Hit those fireballs back at the Ghast!
Building a portal will allow you to travel to another dimension: The Nether.
Use the right tool for the job! Digging dirt with a shovel is much faster than using a pickaxe!
If you can't find any coal for your torches, you can always make charcoal from trees in a furnace.
Digging straight down or straight up is not a great idea.
Bonemeal (crafted from a Skeleton bone) can be used as a fertilizer and can make things grow instantly!
Creepers explode when they get close to you!
Obsidian is created when water hits a lava source block.
If the source block for water or lava is removed, it will stop the flow completely.
Cobblestone is resistant to Ghast fireballs, making it useful for guarding portals.
Blocks that can be used as a light source will melt snow and ice. This includes torches, glowstones, and Jack-O-Lanterns.
Take caution when building structures made of wool out in the open, as lightning from thunderstorms can set wool on fire.
A single bucket of lava can be used in a furnace to smelt 100 blocks.
The instrument played by a note block depends on the material beneath it.
Zombies and Skeletons can survive daylight if they are in water or wearing a helmet.
Attacking a wolf will cause any wolves in the immediate vicinity to turn hostile and attack you. This trait is also shared by Zombie Pigmen.
Wolves and Iron Golems won't attack Creepers.
Chickens lay an egg every 5 to 10 minutes.
Obsidian can only be mined with a diamond or netherite pickaxe.
Creepers are the easiest obtainable source of gunpowder.
Placing two chests side by side will make one large chest.
Tame wolves show their health with the position of their tail. Feed them meat to heal them.
Different colored dyes can be made from a variety of materials, cook cactus in a furnace to get green dye!
Some animals will follow you if you have wheat in your hand.
There will be an update to this game eventually!
Mojang has more awards than staff!
Some famous people play Minecraft!
Do not look directly at the bugs.
Creepers were born from a coding bug.
Is it a chicken or is it a duck?
No-one at Mojang has ever seen Junkboy's face.
Did you know there's a Minecraft Wiki?
MINECON 2011 was in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA!
MINECON 2012 was in Paris, France!
MINECON 2013 was in Orlando, Florida, USA!
No-one can remember where MINECON 2014 was held.
MINECON 2015 was in London, UK!
MINECON 2016 was in Anaheim, California, USA!
The first version of Minecraft was created in just 6 days!
The Enderman language is actually English in reverse.
The original name for Minecraft was Cave Game.
Pigs that are struck by lightning become Zombie Pigmen!
Endermen hate bath time!
Sometimes iron golems give flowers to the villager children!
A Spider Jockey is the rare appearance of a spider being ridden by a skeleton!
Traveling one block in the Nether is equal to traveling eight blocks in the overworld.
You can barter with Piglins.
Shear a Beehive or nest to get Honeycomb, use a Bottle to get honey
Place a Campfire under a Beehive or nest to harvest honey peacefully. Your bees will thank you.
Respawning in the Nether requires a charged Respawn Anchor
You can charge a Respawn Anchor with Glowstone.
You can breed Hoglins with Crimson Fungus, but it is dangerous!
Use seagrass to attract and breed sea turtles.
Protect baby turtles from hostile mobs!
Baby turtles will drop scutes when they grow, these can be crafted into turtle shells.
Brew some water breathing potions for underwater exploration!
Dolphins can lead you to shipwrecks and underwater ruins, feed them cod or salmon and follow their trail!
Use shears to carve a pumpkin.
Use phantom membranes to repair your elytra.
Sea pickles can be smelted into lime green dye.
Use haybales to breed Llamas!
Compasses always point to the world spawn, craft one to find your way!
Trade with villagers to obtain food, tools, and even treasure maps!
Did you know you can hold a map in your off-hand?
Sneak or wear frost walker boots to walk safely on magma blocks.
You can gather cob webs using shears.
Before you mine diamonds, redstone or gold, make sure you're using the proper type of pickaxe or the ore won't drop.
Gold is more abundant in Mesa biomes!
Elytra can be used to glide, find them in End City ships!
Tridents are dropped by the Drowned, and can be held or thrown.
You can smelt 20 items in a furnace by using a block of dried kelp as fuel.
Resource packs change the way that blocks, items, and even the menus look in game. Try them out!
Join the discussion at discord.gg/Minecraft
Emerald ores are the rarest ores in Minecraft! They can only be found in extreme hill biomes!
Ocelots show creepers who's boss!
Diorite, you either love it or hate it.
Phantoms are dangerous mobs that appear during the night. Make sure to sleep regularly!
Zombies turn into drowned if they sink underwater.
MINECON takes place every year! Look out for the next one!
Using fireworks boosts elytra speed in mid air. Just... make sure they don't explode, otherwise it'll hurt BADLY!
Gold is most common in mesa biomes.
Do people actually read these?
DON'T LEAVE TREES FLOATING
Sprint in water to swim!
Riptide enchantment will propel you through the air in the rain.
The Beacon is a powerful item that can only be crafted with a nether star from the Wither!
Don't kill dolphins, you monster!
Did you know that nether stars can't be destroyed by explosions?
When digging straight up, place a torch at your feet to break any sand or gravel that could potentially fall down on you.
Find a bug? Please tell us about it at bugs.mojang.com
We love your feedback! Tell us what you think at feedback.minecraft.net
Did you know you can talk to our developers on discord.gg/Minecraft?